>> Kyle Simpson: Let's look
at how currying can be so
useful combined with composition.
>> Kyle Simpson: I've got
three functions here.
Two of them are binary and
one of them is unary.
The sum and the divBy are binary,
the triple is unary.
Now I'd like to do a composition of these.
But you notice that we
saw in our composition
all of the functions that we did
compositions with our unary.
Why do you suppose we really
only compose unitary functions?
Can anybody guess, can anybody tell me?
>> Speaker 2: Readability.
>> Kyle Simpson: Not really.
There's an actual behavioral reason
why you're basically only ever
gonna compose unary functions.
>> Kyle Simpson: Think about shapes.
Think about it this way.
What would it take to take
the output of triple and
make it the input to the some function?
>> Speaker 3: You have two outputs.
>> Kyle Simpson: You have
that two outputs, right?
Cuz some expects two inputs.
Because of the way functions generally
only produce a single output.
Really, the only natural way to
compose a series of functions is for
them to all be unary.
So, all take one input,
produce one output.
And one output becomes one input, and one
input becomes one output, and so forth.
So there's a reason, shape-wise,
type signature-wise, why it's
vastly more common and more convenient for
you to composed unary functions.
Here I've got one unary function,
which is good,
but how would I express that composition?
I mean, that is a composition,
but it's manual.
How would I express that as
a call to the compose function?
I've got a sum which expects two values.
That doesn't work.
And I've got a divBy which
expects a two values.
That also doesn't work.
Well, what about currying the sum and
the divBy functions,
and then providing two R composition,
this is a now a unary function.
And this is now a unary function.
So remember again, currying allowed
me to reshape those functions
from binary into unary functions.
Which then allowed those uniary
functions to be posed together.
Let's talk about point-free and
let's revisit it.
>> Kyle Simpson: Now that we've seen our
composition and we've seen currying,
we can go back to that example,
with the isOdd.
Remember isOdd from earlier in the course?
And we showed you the use of mod2,
is the mod with the two value passed in,
that's a carried function.
And eq1 is the eq function
with the 1 value carried.
So if we wanted to define isOdd
as a point in free-function,
we now take a compose utility,
in this case composeTwo.
We take a compose utility,
and we compose eq1 and
mod2, which then line 18 is equational.
Using equational reasoning is the same
as the compose two of eq1 mod2.
>> Kyle Simpson: In other words,
we had two binary functions that
we wanted to compose together.
We can't compose two binary functions,
can we?
So what do we do?
We carried both of them,
provided one input to each.
Thereby producing two unary functions
that could be composed together.